So we crawled the Web,
we pulled our data in slowly off
of the Internet following links.
We got our spider database that
has lots of retrieved pages, and
actually far more unretrieved pages.
And then we ran our page rank algorithm
until the network stabilized.
And then we took a quick output of
the data just to take a look at it.
Although, we could use SQLite browser
to see that probably just as well.
So now what we're going to do is
we are going to dump this out and
then visualize it.
And, basically, this is using
a visualization software called d3.js.
And if you're into visualization,
this is really cool because it's a simple,
free, beautiful visualization.
And, honestly, it would take you a very
long time to figure out how to write this.
So you go to d3.js, you find
a visualization, and you sort of copy all
the JavaScript necessary to make it work,
and then you sneak your own data into it.
And that's exactly what we're doing.
So I wrote an HTML page,
you don't have to write that.
It calls this d3.js library, and
at the right point I say
load up my force.js code.
And so all the data's going to
end up in here.
And so spjson's job is to
pull the page rank data out
of spider.sqlite and then put it in
here and then this we won't change.
We'll just read that stuff, okay?
So let's take a look at the code for
spjson.
So basically this is going to, again,
connect and get ourselves a cursor.
And it's going to select the number of
inbound links, count of the inbound
links from from_id's, the old_rank,
the new_rank, the page id, the url.
From the Pages, joined to the Links.
So this is connecting old,
so Pages joined to Links so
that we have the to_id and the from_id.
And, of course, where html is not null and
error is null,
those are the pages we're interested in.
And then we're going to group by their id
since there's going to be
a bunch of these things.
And then we're going to order by the id
and the number of inbound links so
that we have them that way.
And then we're just going to
loop through those records and
open this file spider.js for write.
Then we're going to read
through all the rows.
And add a JSON node to this list.
We're going to make some list
nodes as a Python list object.
We're going to add the row,
just row, row, row.
The row itself is an array.
And then, we're going to rank
go until we run out of nodes.
And then we're going to write all
that stuff out, the spider.js file.
We're going to create a variable,
spider.json equals nodes colon.
And this is the beginning
of an array in JSON.
This is the end of the array.
And then we're printing
out in a particular format
all of the data from
that select statement.
Okay?
And then we print out all the links, read
all that through and then print that out.
So I will run that code
python spjson.py
Let's just do the top 25 nodes. Okay.
So, before we open force.html,
let's take a look at spider.js.
And so, what we're going to have is
a variable that has got a key mapped to
all the nodes where the weight,
which is really the size, how big it is,
the rank position, which ID it is,
the URL, we'll see where that shows up.
And then, those are all the nodes.
And then all the links,
these are all the links.
So, these are the top
25 pages by page rank.
And then these are simply the links,
the source, the target, and
the value of the link, okay?
And so if I then take a look at
force.js, which
you don't have to touch, this is stuff
I took right out of the d3.js website.
And at some point, I load the data,
I put the JSON in.
I take the nodes and the links, and
that corresponds to these
nodes because it's just JSON.
And in JavaScript JSON is supernatural.
And then the links.
And this data that I put in that
file is exactly the data that I had,
took the sample data
from the d3.js example.
Like, oh I will write some Python
to make that exact code.
So, I didn't write any of this.
I just made sure that my data
looked like their sample data.
This is my data, and it looked like
the sample data that I found on d3.js.
And then this is all just stuff.
I didn't write this, I just borrowed it.
It says make a circle,
make the color of the circle, and
then load data from that spiderJson file.
spiderJson is that variable
that I have in spiderJson.js.
This is not a JavaScript class.
And then if I take a look at force.html,
it's pretty simple.
It loads the d3 library.
spider.js, that's
this file right here that sets this
variable spiderJson with all the data.
And then I have a style sheet and
I print out the starting URL.
And then I run this
force.js code which then
reads the data from this
variable spiderJson.
Okay?
So there we go.
With all of that,
I am going to start my browser.
And I'm going to open not Open Location.
Open File, and
I'm going to go to my Desktop.
And pythonlearn code, code, code, code,
pagerank, pagerank, force.html.
That's the thing that we've got to open.
So we'll open that and it reads the data.
And look at that.
We now have a visualized page rank.
And so this is that one that
somehow had a page rank of 19.
That's known by Aras.
So these are that same data you
played with in other assignments.
It just so happens that I made it so
that it wasn't uniform.
Some people are lucky and
have lots of friends.
Some people aren't so lucky,
and don't have lots of friends.
Don't worry I didn't, it's not personal,
I just made it random.
And so you can see this.
And so that see this has,
doesn't mean that there's lots of links.
The nodes that linked to
this are not always on here.
And so, there you go.
So that's our visualization.
So, hope you find that useful and
I hope that you can do this and
make your own visualization from our data.
Or if you get a little more adventurous,
go spider some other place on the Web and
see if you can get it to work
on some other part of the Web.
Thanks a lot.